# About

This directory contains code for proteome-wide analysis to identify IDRs that are conserved in chemical specificity but not in linear sequence. 

This was a ton of work, but we actually cut all the figures associated with this analysis from the paper, but the file `generated_data/conserved_idrs.tsv` is essentially the main output. It's a simple TSV file that contains 464 rows, where each row corresponds to an IDR we identified in the _S. C. cerevisiae_ proteome that is poorly conserved in terms of linear sequence, but well conserved in terms of predicted intermolecular interactions with different chemical fiducial markers using FINCHES-based analysis against the 36 fingerprint dipetides, as defined by Ginell et al. Science 2025.

In addition, we provide aligned and unaligned conserved orthologous IDRs identified across 20 yeast species using S. cerevisiae as a reference point, identifying 1713 (metapredict V1) or 2605 (metapredict v3) conserved IDRs. We again see this as a really valuable resource for exploring conservation across IDRs.

### Code overview

* `1_build_ysn2uniprot_mapping.ipynb` - code to build some input files.

* `2_build_orthologous_IDRs.ipynb` - code to wrangle the IDRs across yeast genome order browser (YGOB) sequences. Note this used version 7 (2012)...

* `3_chemical_vs_sequence_conservation.ipynb` - code to identify those IDRs that are conserved in terms of chemical specificity and not sequence specificity.

### Directory overview

* `idr_msas/` - sequence files on a per-IDR basis
* `generated_data`/ - output data files generated by the code here
* `input_data`/ - data used to help build the generated_data (specifically using UniProt-derived mapping of YSN identifiers to UniProt IDs and gene names).
* `figures/` - figures generated