# About

This directory holds a number of files generated by the code:

* **`ysn_only.txt`** - generated by `1_build_ysn2uniprot_mapping.ipynb`; list of all the YSN identifiers.
* **`ysn2uniprot.pkl`** - generated by `1_build_ysn2uniprot_mapping.ipynb` dictionary that maps YSN identifier to uniprot ID, protein name, and gene names.
* **`ysn2uniprot.tsv`** - also generated by `1_build_ysn2uniprot_mapping.ipynb`, same data as in `ysn2uniprot.pkl` but saved as a TSV for easy human readability.
* **`ysn2idrvar_metapredict_v3_disorder_0.8_50.pkl.pkl`** - maps YSN to a dictionary where each key is an IDR definition (as `IDR<X>_<start>_<end>`) and each value is a 36-position list of variance values, where each variance value reports on the variants in epsilon scores for the orthologous IDRs vs. each of the 36 chemical fingerprints defined in the FINCHES paper. Here, IDRs were identified using metapredict V1. Note that the `0.8` and the `50` refer to the fraction disorder threshold used and the minimum length of the IDR, respectively.
* **`ysn2idrvar_metapredict_v3_disorder_0.8_50.pkl.pkl`** - maps YSN to a dictionary where each key is an IDR definition (as `IDR<X>_<start>_<end>`) and each value is a 36-position list of variance values, where each variance value reports on the variants in epsilon scores for the orthologous IDRs vs. each of the 36 chemical fingerprints defined in the FINCHES paper. Here, IDRs were identified using metapredict V3. Note that the `0.8` and the `50` refer to the fraction disorder threshold used and the minimum length of the IDR, respectively.
* **`ysn2idrs_v1_v1_disorder_0.8_50.pkl`** -  The "aligned" IDRs from orthologs mapped from the YSN, generated using metapredict V1. Note the `0.8` and the `50` refer to the fraction disorder threshold used and the minimum length of the IDR, respectively.
* **`ysn2idrs_v3_v3_disorder_0.8_50.pkl`** - The "aligned" IDRs from orthologs mapped from the YSN, generated using metapredict V3. Note the `0.8` and the `50` refer to the fraction disorder threshold used and the minimum length of the IDR, respectively.
* **`conserved_idrs.csv`** - this file holds sequences for 464 IDRs that are POORLY conserved in terms of linear sequence but well-conserved in terms of chemical specificity. This is a TSV (not
* **`aligned_chemically_conserved_hits/`** - this directory holds 464 FASTA files, where each file contains an aligned FASTA file for a unique IDR identified as being POORLY conserved in terms of linear sequence but well-conserved in terms of chemical specificity. The files that end with `_superconserved` represent IDRs where chemical specificity for 10 or more different "chemical fingerprints" was seen. Note the file `unique_uniprot_ids.txt` in here was generated by running `ls -ltrh  | awk {'print $9 '} | awk -F "_" {'print $1'} | sort | uniq > unique_uniprot_ids.txt` 



## Data excluded from GitHub repo
We note that the following files are not included in the GitHub repository:

* `ysn2idrs_v3_v3_disorder_0.8_50.pkl`
* `ysn2idrs_v1_v1_disorder_0.8_50.pkl`